feat: v3.3.0 activation (#602)
bgd-labs/aave-proposals-v3: src/20250205_Multi_UpgradeAaveInstancesToV33/UpgradeAaveInstancesToV33.md

---
title: "Upgrade Aave instances to v3.3"
author: "BGD Labs @bgdlabs"
discussions: "https://governance.aave.com/t/bgd-aave-v3-3-feat-umbrella/20129"
---

## Simple Summary

This proposal will upgrade all active Aave instances to version v3.3.0.

## Motivation

> Back in december we(BGD Labs) [proposed](https://governance.aave.com/t/bgd-aave-v3-3-feat-umbrella/20129) the Aave v3.3.0 upgrade which improves the liquidation engine, to support the previously proposed [Umbrella](https://governance.aave.com/t/bgd-aave-safety-module-umbrella/18366) proposal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Back in December, we (BGD Labs) [presented](https://governance.aave.com/t/bgd-aave-v3-3-feat-umbrella/20129) the Aave v3.3.0 upgrade, improving Aave's liquidation engine, and supporting support the previously proposed [Umbrella](https://governance.aave.com/t/bgd-aave-safety-module-umbrella/18366).
```

With the proposal being executed, the Aave Protocol will start tracking bad debt, which can then be used as an input on Umbrella to slash stakers & cover the realized deficit.

## Specification

This proposal will upgrade all active Aave instances to the new v3.3.0 version.
In practice this means:

> 1. the pool implementation will be upgraded via a call to `POOL_ADDRESSES_PROVIDER.setPoolImpl(newImpl)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The pool implementation will be upgraded via a call to `POOL_ADDRESSES_PROVIDER.setPoolImpl(newImpl)`
```

> 2. the pool configurator will be upgraded via a call to `POOL_ADDRESSES_PROVIDER.setPoolConfiguratorImpl(poolConfiguratorImpl)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The pool configurator will be upgraded via a call to `POOL_ADDRESSES_PROVIDER.setPoolConfiguratorImpl(poolConfiguratorImpl)`
```

> 3. the pool data provider will be replaced via a call to `POOL_ADDRESSES_PROVIDER.setPoolDataProvider(newPoolDataProvider)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The pool data provider will be replaced via a call to `POOL_ADDRESSES_PROVIDER.setPoolDataProvider(newPoolDataProvider)`
```

> In addition the proposal will transfer 66.400$ in aUSDC to a wallet controlled by BGD to cover audit costs.

Reviewer 2: would also link forum discussion for this

> In addition the proposal will transfer 66.400$ in aUSDC to a wallet controlled by BGD to cover audit costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition the proposal will transfer 66.400$ in aUSDC to a wallet controlled by BGD to cover audit costs, as disclosed [HERE](https://governance.aave.com/t/bgd-aave-v3-3-feat-umbrella/20129/5)
```
